src/reference/asciidoc/quick-tour.adoc, before:

[[quick-tour]]
=== Quick Tour for the Impatient

==== Introduction

This is the 5 minute tour to get started with Spring Kafka.

Prerequisites: install and run Apache Kafka
Then grab the spring-kafka JAR and all of its dependencies - the easiest way to do that is to declare a dependency in
your build tool, e.g. for Maven:

[source,xml,subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.kafka</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-kafka</artifactId>
  <version>{spring-kafka-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

And for Gradle:

[source,groovy,subs="+attributes"]
----
compile 'org.springframework.kafka:spring-kafka:{spring-kafka-version}'
----

[[compatibility]]
===== Compatibility

- Apache Kafka Clients 1.0.0
- Spring Framework 5.0.x
- Minimum Java version: 8

===== Very, Very Quick

Using plain Java to send and receive a message:

[source,java]
----
@Test
public void testAutoCommit() throws Exception {
    logger.info("Start auto");
    ContainerProperties containerProps = new ContainerProperties("topic1", "topic2");
    final CountDownLatch latch = new CountDownLatch(4);
    containerProps.setMessageListener(new MessageListener<Integer, String>() {

        @Override
        public void onMessage(ConsumerRecord<Integer, String> message) {
            logger.info("received: " + message);
            latch.countDown();
        }

    });
    KafkaMessageListenerContainer<Integer, String> container = createContainer(containerProps);
    container.setBeanName("testAuto");
    container.start();
    Thread.sleep(1000); // wait a bit for the container to start
    KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> template = createTemplate();
    template.setDefaultTopic(topic1);
    template.sendDefault(0, "foo");
    template.sendDefault(2, "bar");
    template.sendDefault(0, "baz");
    template.sendDefault(2, "qux");
    template.flush();
    assertTrue(latch.await(60, TimeUnit.SECONDS));
    container.stop();
    logger.info("Stop auto");

}
----

[source, java]
----
private KafkaMessageListenerContainer<Integer, String> createContainer(
                        ContainerProperties containerProps) {
    Map<String, Object> props = consumerProps();
    DefaultKafkaConsumerFactory<Integer, String> cf =
                            new DefaultKafkaConsumerFactory<Integer, String>(props);
    KafkaMessageListenerContainer<Integer, String> container =
                            new KafkaMessageListenerContainer<>(cf, containerProps);
    return container;
}

private KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> createTemplate() {
    Map<String, Object> senderProps = senderProps();
    ProducerFactory<Integer, String> pf =
              new DefaultKafkaProducerFactory<Integer, String>(senderProps);
    KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> template = new KafkaTemplate<>(pf);
    return template;
}

private Map<String, Object> consumerProps() {
    Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, "localhost:9092");
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.GROUP_ID_CONFIG, group);
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.ENABLE_AUTO_COMMIT_CONFIG, true);
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_COMMIT_INTERVAL_MS_CONFIG, "100");
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.SESSION_TIMEOUT_MS_CONFIG, "15000");
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.KEY_DESERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, IntegerDeserializer.class);
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.VALUE_DESERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, StringDeserializer.class);
    return props;
}

private Map<String, Object> senderProps() {
    Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
    props.put(ProducerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, "localhost:9092");
    props.put(ProducerConfig.RETRIES_CONFIG, 0);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.BATCH_SIZE_CONFIG, 16384);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.LINGER_MS_CONFIG, 1);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.BUFFER_MEMORY_CONFIG, 33554432);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.KEY_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, IntegerSerializer.class);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.VALUE_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, StringSerializer.class);
    return props;
}
----

===== With Java Configuration

A similar example but with Spring configuration in Java:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired
private Listener listener;

@Autowired
private KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> template;

@Test
public void testSimple() throws Exception {
    template.send("annotated1", 0, "foo");
    template.flush();
    assertTrue(this.listener.latch1.await(10, TimeUnit.SECONDS));
}

@Configuration
@EnableKafka
public class Config {

    @Bean
    ConcurrentKafkaListenerContainerFactory<Integer, String>
                        kafkaListenerContainerFactory() {
        ConcurrentKafkaListenerContainerFactory<Integer, String> factory =
                                new ConcurrentKafkaListenerContainerFactory<>();
        factory.setConsumerFactory(consumerFactory());
        return factory;
    }

    @Bean
    public ConsumerFactory<Integer, String> consumerFactory() {
        return new DefaultKafkaConsumerFactory<>(consumerConfigs());
    }

    @Bean
    public Map<String, Object> consumerConfigs() {
        Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
        props.put(ConsumerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, embeddedKafka.getBrokersAsString());
        ...
        return props;
    }

    @Bean
    public Listener listener() {
        return new Listener();
    }

    @Bean
    public ProducerFactory<Integer, String> producerFactory() {
        return new DefaultKafkaProducerFactory<>(producerConfigs());
    }

    @Bean
    public Map<String, Object> producerConfigs() {
        Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
        props.put(ProducerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, embeddedKafka.getBrokersAsString());
        ...
        return props;
    }

    @Bean
    public KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> kafkaTemplate() {
        return new KafkaTemplate<Integer, String>(producerFactory());
    }

}
----

[source, java]
----
public class Listener {

    private final CountDownLatch latch1 = new CountDownLatch(1);

    @KafkaListener(id = "foo", topics = "annotated1")
    public void listen1(String foo) {
        this.latch1.countDown();
    }

}
----

===== Even Quicker, with Spring Boot

The following Spring Boot application sends 3 messages to a topic, receives them, and stops.

.Application
[source, java]
----
@SpringBootApplication
public class Application implements CommandLineRunner {

    public static Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(Application.class);

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args).close();
    }

    @Autowired
    private KafkaTemplate<String, String> template;

    private final CountDownLatch latch = new CountDownLatch(3);

    @Override
    public void run(String... args) throws Exception {
        this.template.send("myTopic", "foo1");
        this.template.send("myTopic", "foo2");
        this.template.send("myTopic", "foo3");
        latch.await(60, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
        logger.info("All received");
    }

    @KafkaListener(topics = "myTopic")
    public void listen(ConsumerRecord<?, ?> cr) throws Exception {
        logger.info(cr.toString());
        latch.countDown();
    }

}
----

Boot takes care of most of the configuration; when using a local broker, the only properties we need are:

.application.properties
[source]
----
spring.kafka.consumer.group-id=foo
spring.kafka.consumer.auto-offset-reset=earliest
----

The first because we are using group management to assign topic partitions to consumers so we need a group, the second to ensure the new consumer group will get the messages we just sent, because the container might start after the sends have completed.

Commit message:

GH-780: Docs for using the 2.0.0 clients
Resolves https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-kafka/issues/780

src/reference/asciidoc/quick-tour.adoc, after:

[[quick-tour]]
=== Quick Tour for the Impatient

==== Introduction

This is the 5 minute tour to get started with Spring Kafka.

Prerequisites: install and run Apache Kafka
Then grab the spring-kafka JAR and all of its dependencies - the easiest way to do that is to declare a dependency in
your build tool, e.g. for Maven:

[source,xml,subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.kafka</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-kafka</artifactId>
  <version>{spring-kafka-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

And for Gradle:

[source,groovy,subs="+attributes"]
----
compile 'org.springframework.kafka:spring-kafka:{spring-kafka-version}'
----

[[compatibility]]
===== Compatibility

- Apache Kafka Clients 1.0.x or later (See note below)
- Spring Framework 5.0.x
- Minimum Java version: 8

NOTE: The framework has been tested with `kafka-clients` 1.1.1 and 2.0.0; when using the `spring-kafka-test` embedded Kafka broker, you must override other jars, as described in <<deps-for-11x>>.

===== Very, Very Quick

Using plain Java to send and receive a message:

[source,java]
----
@Test
public void testAutoCommit() throws Exception {
    logger.info("Start auto");
    ContainerProperties containerProps = new ContainerProperties("topic1", "topic2");
    final CountDownLatch latch = new CountDownLatch(4);
    containerProps.setMessageListener(new MessageListener<Integer, String>() {

        @Override
        public void onMessage(ConsumerRecord<Integer, String> message) {
            logger.info("received: " + message);
            latch.countDown();
        }

    });
    KafkaMessageListenerContainer<Integer, String> container = createContainer(containerProps);
    container.setBeanName("testAuto");
    container.start();
    Thread.sleep(1000); // wait a bit for the container to start
    KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> template = createTemplate();
    template.setDefaultTopic(topic1);
    template.sendDefault(0, "foo");
    template.sendDefault(2, "bar");
    template.sendDefault(0, "baz");
    template.sendDefault(2, "qux");
    template.flush();
    assertTrue(latch.await(60, TimeUnit.SECONDS));
    container.stop();
    logger.info("Stop auto");

}
----

[source, java]
----
private KafkaMessageListenerContainer<Integer, String> createContainer(
                        ContainerProperties containerProps) {
    Map<String, Object> props = consumerProps();
    DefaultKafkaConsumerFactory<Integer, String> cf =
                            new DefaultKafkaConsumerFactory<Integer, String>(props);
    KafkaMessageListenerContainer<Integer, String> container =
                            new KafkaMessageListenerContainer<>(cf, containerProps);
    return container;
}

private KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> createTemplate() {
    Map<String, Object> senderProps = senderProps();
    ProducerFactory<Integer, String> pf =
              new DefaultKafkaProducerFactory<Integer, String>(senderProps);
    KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> template = new KafkaTemplate<>(pf);
    return template;
}

private Map<String, Object> consumerProps() {
    Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, "localhost:9092");
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.GROUP_ID_CONFIG, group);
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.ENABLE_AUTO_COMMIT_CONFIG, true);
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.AUTO_COMMIT_INTERVAL_MS_CONFIG, "100");
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.SESSION_TIMEOUT_MS_CONFIG, "15000");
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.KEY_DESERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, IntegerDeserializer.class);
    props.put(ConsumerConfig.VALUE_DESERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, StringDeserializer.class);
    return props;
}

private Map<String, Object> senderProps() {
    Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
    props.put(ProducerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, "localhost:9092");
    props.put(ProducerConfig.RETRIES_CONFIG, 0);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.BATCH_SIZE_CONFIG, 16384);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.LINGER_MS_CONFIG, 1);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.BUFFER_MEMORY_CONFIG, 33554432);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.KEY_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, IntegerSerializer.class);
    props.put(ProducerConfig.VALUE_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, StringSerializer.class);
    return props;
}
----

===== With Java Configuration

A similar example but with Spring configuration in Java:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired
private Listener listener;

@Autowired
private KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> template;

@Test
public void testSimple() throws Exception {
    template.send("annotated1", 0, "foo");
    template.flush();
    assertTrue(this.listener.latch1.await(10, TimeUnit.SECONDS));
}

@Configuration
@EnableKafka
public class Config {

    @Bean
    ConcurrentKafkaListenerContainerFactory<Integer, String>
                        kafkaListenerContainerFactory() {
        ConcurrentKafkaListenerContainerFactory<Integer, String> factory =
                                new ConcurrentKafkaListenerContainerFactory<>();
        factory.setConsumerFactory(consumerFactory());
        return factory;
    }

    @Bean
    public ConsumerFactory<Integer, String> consumerFactory() {
        return new DefaultKafkaConsumerFactory<>(consumerConfigs());
    }

    @Bean
    public Map<String, Object> consumerConfigs() {
        Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
        props.put(ConsumerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, embeddedKafka.getBrokersAsString());
        ...
        return props;
    }

    @Bean
    public Listener listener() {
        return new Listener();
    }

    @Bean
    public ProducerFactory<Integer, String> producerFactory() {
        return new DefaultKafkaProducerFactory<>(producerConfigs());
    }

    @Bean
    public Map<String, Object> producerConfigs() {
        Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
        props.put(ProducerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, embeddedKafka.getBrokersAsString());
        ...
        return props;
    }

    @Bean
    public KafkaTemplate<Integer, String> kafkaTemplate() {
        return new KafkaTemplate<Integer, String>(producerFactory());
    }

}
----

[source, java]
----
public class Listener {

    private final CountDownLatch latch1 = new CountDownLatch(1);

    @KafkaListener(id = "foo", topics = "annotated1")
    public void listen1(String foo) {
        this.latch1.countDown();
    }

}
----

===== Even Quicker, with Spring Boot

The following Spring Boot application sends 3 messages to a topic, receives them, and stops.

.Application
[source, java]
----
@SpringBootApplication
public class Application implements CommandLineRunner {

    public static Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(Application.class);

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args).close();
    }

    @Autowired
    private KafkaTemplate<String, String> template;

    private final CountDownLatch latch = new CountDownLatch(3);

    @Override
    public void run(String... args) throws Exception {
        this.template.send("myTopic", "foo1");
        this.template.send("myTopic", "foo2");
        this.template.send("myTopic", "foo3");
        latch.await(60, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
        logger.info("All received");
    }

    @KafkaListener(topics = "myTopic")
    public void listen(ConsumerRecord<?, ?> cr) throws Exception {
        logger.info(cr.toString());
        latch.countDown();
    }

}
----

Boot takes care of most of the configuration; when using a local broker, the only properties we need are:

.application.properties
[source]
----
spring.kafka.consumer.group-id=foo
spring.kafka.consumer.auto-offset-reset=earliest
----

The first because we are using group management to assign topic partitions to consumers so we need a group, the second to ensure the new consumer group will get the messages we just sent, because the container might start after the sends have completed.
