src/reference/asciidoc/streams.adoc, before:

[[kafka-streams]]
=== Kafka Streams Support

==== Introduction

Starting with _version 1.1.4_, Spring for Apache Kafka provides first class support for https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/streams[Kafka Streams].
For using it from a Spring application, the `kafka-streams` jar must be present on classpath.
It is an optional dependency of the `spring-kafka` project and isn't downloaded transitively.

==== Basics

The reference Apache Kafka Streams documentation suggests this way of using the API:

[source, java]
----
// Use the builders to define the actual processing topology, e.g. to specify
// from which input topics to read, which stream operations (filter, map, etc.)
// should be called, and so on.

StreamsBuilder builder = ...;  // when using the Kafka Streams DSL

// Use the configuration to tell your application where the Kafka cluster is,
// which serializers/deserializers to use by default, to specify security settings,
// and so on.
StreamsConfig config = ...;

KafkaStreams streams = new KafkaStreams(builder, config);

// Start the Kafka Streams instance
streams.start();

// Stop the Kafka Streams instance
streams.close();
----

So, we have two main components: `StreamsBuilder` with an API to build `KStream` (or `KTable`) instances and `KafkaStreams` to manage their lifecycle.
Note: all `KStream` instances exposed to a `KafkaStreams` instance by a single `StreamsBuilder` will be started and stopped at the same time, even if they have a fully different logic.
In other words all our streams defined by a `StreamsBuilder` are tied with a single lifecycle control.
Once a `KafkaStreams` instance has been closed via `streams.close()` it cannot be restarted, and a new `KafkaStreams` instance to restart stream processing must be created instead.

==== Spring Management

To simplify the usage of Kafka Streams from the Spring application context perspective and utilize the lifecycle management via container, the Spring for Apache Kafka introduces `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`.
This is an `AbstractFactoryBean` implementation to expose a `StreamsBuilder` singleton instance as a bean:

[source, java]
----
@Bean
public FactoryBean<StreamsBuilderFactoryBean> myKStreamBuilder(StreamsConfig streamsConfig) {
    return new StreamsBuilderFactoryBean(streamsConfig);
}
----

The `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` also implements `SmartLifecycle` to manage lifecycle of an internal `KafkaStreams` instance.
Similar to the Kafka Streams API, the `KStream` instances must be defined before starting the `KafkaStreams`, and that also applies for the Spring API for Kafka Streams.
Therefore we have to declare `KStream` s on the `StreamsBuilder` before the application context is refreshed, when we use default `autoStartup = true` on the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`.
For example, `KStream` can be just as a regular bean definition, meanwhile the Kafka Streams API is used without any impacts:

[source, java]
----
@Bean
public KStream<?, ?> kStream(StreamsBuilder kStreamBuilder) {
    KStream<Integer, String> stream = kStreamBuilder.stream(STREAMING_TOPIC1);
    // Fluent KStream API
    return stream;
}
----

If you would like to control lifecycle manually (e.g. stop and start by some condition), you can reference the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` bean directly using factory bean (`&`) http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/beans.html#beans-factory-extension-factorybean[prefix].
Since `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` utilize its internal `KafkaStreams` instance, it is safe to stop and restart it again - a new `KafkaStreams` is created on each `start()`.
Also consider using different `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` s, if you would like to control lifecycles for `KStream` instances separately.

You also can specify `KafkaStreams.StateListener`, `Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler` and `StateRestoreListener` options on the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` which are delegated to the internal `KafkaStreams` instance.
Also apart from setting those options indirectly on `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`, starting with _version 2.1.5_,  a `KafkaStreamsCustomizer` callback interface can be used to configure inner `KafkaStreams` instance.
Note that `KafkaStreamsCustomizer` will override the options which are given via `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`.
That internal `KafkaStreams` instance can be accessed via `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean.getKafkaStreams()` if you need to perform some `KafkaStreams` operations directly.
You can autowire `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` bean by type, but you should be sure that you use full type in the bean definition, for example:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public StreamsBuilderFactoryBean myKStreamBuilder(StreamsConfig streamsConfig) {
    return new StreamsBuilderFactoryBean(streamsConfig);
}
...
@Autowired
private StreamsBuilderFactoryBean myKStreamBuilderFactoryBean;
----

Or add `@Qualifier` for injection by name if you use interface bean definition:
[source,java]
----
@Bean
public FactoryBean<StreamsBuilder> myKStreamBuilder(StreamsConfig streamsConfig) {
    return new StreamsBuilderFactoryBean(streamsConfig);
}
...
@Autowired
@Qualifier("&myKStreamBuilder")
private StreamsBuilderFactoryBean myKStreamBuilderFactoryBean;
----

==== JSON Serdes

For serializing and deserializing data when reading or writing to topics or state stores in JSON format, Spring Kafka provides a `JsonSerde` implementation using JSON, delegating to the `JsonSerializer` and `JsonDeserializer` described in <<serdes, the serialization/deserialization section>>.
The `JsonSerde` provides the same configuration options via its constructor (target type and/or `ObjectMapper`).
In the following example we use the `JsonSerde` to serialize and deserialize the `Foo` payload of a Kafka stream - the `JsonSerde` can be used in a similar fashion wherever an instance is required.

[source,java]
----
stream.through(Serdes.Integer(), new JsonSerde<>(Foo.class), "foos");
----

==== Configuration

To configure the Kafka Streams environment, the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` requires a `Map` of particular properties or a `StreamsConfig` instance.
See Apache Kafka https://kafka.apache.org/0102/documentation/#streamsconfigs[documentation] for all possible options.

To avoid boilerplate code for most cases, especially when you develop micro services, Spring for Apache Kafka provides the `@EnableKafkaStreams` annotation, which should be placed alongside with `@Configuration`.
Only you need is to declare `StreamsConfig` bean with the `defaultKafkaStreamsConfig` name.
A `StreamsBuilder` bean with the `defaultKafkaStreamsBuilder` name will be declare in the application context automatically.
Any additional `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` beans can be declared and used as well.

By default, when the factory bean is stopped, the `KafkaStreams.cleanUp()` method is called.
Starting with _version 2.1.2_, the factory bean has additional constructors, taking a `CleanupConfig` object that has properties to allow you to control whether the `cleanUp()` method is called during `start()`, `stop()`, or neither.

==== Kafka Streams Example

Putting it all together:

[source, java]
----
@Configuration
@EnableKafka
@EnableKafkaStreams
public static class KafkaStreamsConfiguration {

    @Bean(name = KafkaStreamsDefaultConfiguration.DEFAULT_STREAMS_CONFIG_BEAN_NAME)
    public StreamsConfig kStreamsConfigs() {
        Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
        props.put(StreamsConfig.APPLICATION_ID_CONFIG, "testStreams");
        props.put(StreamsConfig.KEY_SERDE_CLASS_CONFIG, Serdes.Integer().getClass().getName());
        props.put(StreamsConfig.VALUE_SERDE_CLASS_CONFIG, Serdes.String().getClass().getName());
        props.put(StreamsConfig.TIMESTAMP_EXTRACTOR_CLASS_CONFIG, WallclockTimestampExtractor.class.getName());
        return new StreamsConfig(props);
    }

    @Bean
    public KStream<Integer, String> kStream(StreamsBuilder kStreamBuilder) {
        KStream<Integer, String> stream = kStreamBuilder.stream("streamingTopic1");
        stream
                .mapValues(String::toUpperCase)
                .groupByKey()
                .reduce((String value1, String value2) -> value1 + value2,
                		TimeWindows.of(1000),
                		"windowStore")
                .toStream()
                .map((windowedId, value) -> new KeyValue<>(windowedId.key(), value))
                .filter((i, s) -> s.length() > 40)
                .to("streamingTopic2");

        stream.print();

        return stream;
    }

}
----

Commit message:

GH-652: JsonSerializer add null check for Headers
Fixes: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-kafka/issues/652

Kafka Streams `ChangedSerializer` calls the `Serde` with `null` in `headers`.

**cherry-pick to 2.1.x, 2.0.x, 1.3.x**

(cherry picked from commit ad28b91)

src/reference/asciidoc/streams.adoc, after:

[[kafka-streams]]
=== Kafka Streams Support

==== Introduction

Starting with _version 1.1.4_, Spring for Apache Kafka provides first class support for https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/streams[Kafka Streams].
For using it from a Spring application, the `kafka-streams` jar must be present on classpath.
It is an optional dependency of the `spring-kafka` project and isn't downloaded transitively.

==== Basics

The reference Apache Kafka Streams documentation suggests this way of using the API:

[source, java]
----
// Use the builders to define the actual processing topology, e.g. to specify
// from which input topics to read, which stream operations (filter, map, etc.)
// should be called, and so on.

StreamsBuilder builder = ...;  // when using the Kafka Streams DSL

// Use the configuration to tell your application where the Kafka cluster is,
// which serializers/deserializers to use by default, to specify security settings,
// and so on.
StreamsConfig config = ...;

KafkaStreams streams = new KafkaStreams(builder, config);

// Start the Kafka Streams instance
streams.start();

// Stop the Kafka Streams instance
streams.close();
----

So, we have two main components: `StreamsBuilder` with an API to build `KStream` (or `KTable`) instances and `KafkaStreams` to manage their lifecycle.
Note: all `KStream` instances exposed to a `KafkaStreams` instance by a single `StreamsBuilder` will be started and stopped at the same time, even if they have a fully different logic.
In other words all our streams defined by a `StreamsBuilder` are tied with a single lifecycle control.
Once a `KafkaStreams` instance has been closed via `streams.close()` it cannot be restarted, and a new `KafkaStreams` instance to restart stream processing must be created instead.

==== Spring Management

To simplify the usage of Kafka Streams from the Spring application context perspective and utilize the lifecycle management via container, the Spring for Apache Kafka introduces `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`.
This is an `AbstractFactoryBean` implementation to expose a `StreamsBuilder` singleton instance as a bean:

[source, java]
----
@Bean
public FactoryBean<StreamsBuilderFactoryBean> myKStreamBuilder(StreamsConfig streamsConfig) {
    return new StreamsBuilderFactoryBean(streamsConfig);
}
----

The `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` also implements `SmartLifecycle` to manage lifecycle of an internal `KafkaStreams` instance.
Similar to the Kafka Streams API, the `KStream` instances must be defined before starting the `KafkaStreams`, and that also applies for the Spring API for Kafka Streams.
Therefore we have to declare `KStream` s on the `StreamsBuilder` before the application context is refreshed, when we use default `autoStartup = true` on the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`.
For example, `KStream` can be just as a regular bean definition, meanwhile the Kafka Streams API is used without any impacts:

[source, java]
----
@Bean
public KStream<?, ?> kStream(StreamsBuilder kStreamBuilder) {
    KStream<Integer, String> stream = kStreamBuilder.stream(STREAMING_TOPIC1);
    // Fluent KStream API
    return stream;
}
----

If you would like to control lifecycle manually (e.g. stop and start by some condition), you can reference the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` bean directly using factory bean (`&`) http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/beans.html#beans-factory-extension-factorybean[prefix].
Since `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` utilize its internal `KafkaStreams` instance, it is safe to stop and restart it again - a new `KafkaStreams` is created on each `start()`.
Also consider using different `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` s, if you would like to control lifecycles for `KStream` instances separately.

You also can specify `KafkaStreams.StateListener`, `Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler` and `StateRestoreListener` options on the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` which are delegated to the internal `KafkaStreams` instance.
Also apart from setting those options indirectly on `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`, starting with _version 2.1.5_,  a `KafkaStreamsCustomizer` callback interface can be used to configure inner `KafkaStreams` instance.
Note that `KafkaStreamsCustomizer` will override the options which are given via `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean`.
That internal `KafkaStreams` instance can be accessed via `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean.getKafkaStreams()` if you need to perform some `KafkaStreams` operations directly.
You can autowire `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` bean by type, but you should be sure that you use full type in the bean definition, for example:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public StreamsBuilderFactoryBean myKStreamBuilder(StreamsConfig streamsConfig) {
    return new StreamsBuilderFactoryBean(streamsConfig);
}
...
@Autowired
private StreamsBuilderFactoryBean myKStreamBuilderFactoryBean;
----

Or add `@Qualifier` for injection by name if you use interface bean definition:
[source,java]
----
@Bean
public FactoryBean<StreamsBuilder> myKStreamBuilder(StreamsConfig streamsConfig) {
    return new StreamsBuilderFactoryBean(streamsConfig);
}
...
@Autowired
@Qualifier("&myKStreamBuilder")
private StreamsBuilderFactoryBean myKStreamBuilderFactoryBean;
----

==== JSON Serdes

For serializing and deserializing data when reading or writing to topics or state stores in JSON format, Spring Kafka provides a `JsonSerde` implementation using JSON, delegating to the `JsonSerializer` and `JsonDeserializer` described in <<serdes, the serialization/deserialization section>>.
The `JsonSerde` provides the same configuration options via its constructor (target type and/or `ObjectMapper`).
In the following example we use the `JsonSerde` to serialize and deserialize the `Foo` payload of a Kafka stream - the `JsonSerde` can be used in a similar fashion wherever an instance is required.

[source,java]
----
stream.through(Serdes.Integer(), new JsonSerde<>(Foo.class), "foos");
----

IMPORTANT: Since Kafka Streams do not support headers, the `addTypeInfo` property on the `JsonSerializer` is ignored.

==== Configuration

To configure the Kafka Streams environment, the `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` requires a `Map` of particular properties or a `StreamsConfig` instance.
See Apache Kafka https://kafka.apache.org/0102/documentation/#streamsconfigs[documentation] for all possible options.

To avoid boilerplate code for most cases, especially when you develop micro services, Spring for Apache Kafka provides the `@EnableKafkaStreams` annotation, which should be placed alongside with `@Configuration`.
Only you need is to declare `StreamsConfig` bean with the `defaultKafkaStreamsConfig` name.
A `StreamsBuilder` bean with the `defaultKafkaStreamsBuilder` name will be declare in the application context automatically.
Any additional `StreamsBuilderFactoryBean` beans can be declared and used as well.

By default, when the factory bean is stopped, the `KafkaStreams.cleanUp()` method is called.
Starting with _version 2.1.2_, the factory bean has additional constructors, taking a `CleanupConfig` object that has properties to allow you to control whether the `cleanUp()` method is called during `start()`, `stop()`, or neither.

==== Kafka Streams Example

Putting it all together:

[source, java]
----
@Configuration
@EnableKafka
@EnableKafkaStreams
public static class KafkaStreamsConfiguration {

    @Bean(name = KafkaStreamsDefaultConfiguration.DEFAULT_STREAMS_CONFIG_BEAN_NAME)
    public StreamsConfig kStreamsConfigs() {
        Map<String, Object> props = new HashMap<>();
        props.put(StreamsConfig.APPLICATION_ID_CONFIG, "testStreams");
        props.put(StreamsConfig.KEY_SERDE_CLASS_CONFIG, Serdes.Integer().getClass().getName());
        props.put(StreamsConfig.VALUE_SERDE_CLASS_CONFIG, Serdes.String().getClass().getName());
        props.put(StreamsConfig.TIMESTAMP_EXTRACTOR_CLASS_CONFIG, WallclockTimestampExtractor.class.getName());
        return new StreamsConfig(props);
    }

    @Bean
    public KStream<Integer, String> kStream(StreamsBuilder kStreamBuilder) {
        KStream<Integer, String> stream = kStreamBuilder.stream("streamingTopic1");
        stream
                .mapValues(String::toUpperCase)
                .groupByKey()
                .reduce((String value1, String value2) -> value1 + value2,
                		TimeWindows.of(1000),
                		"windowStore")
                .toStream()
                .map((windowedId, value) -> new KeyValue<>(windowedId.key(), value))
                .filter((i, s) -> s.length() > 40)
                .to("streamingTopic2");

        stream.print();

        return stream;
    }

}
----
