src/reference/asciidoc/whats-new.adoc, before:

=== What's new in 2.1 Since 2.0

==== Kafka Client Version

This version requires the 1.0.0 `kafka-clients` or higher.

NOTE: The 1.1.x client is supported, with _version 2.1.5_, but you will need to override dependencies as described in <<deps-for-11x>>.
The 1.1.x client will be supported natively in _version 2.2_.

==== JSON Improvements

The `StringJsonMessageConverter` and `JsonSerializer` now add type information in `Headers`, allowing the converter and `JsonDeserializer` to create specific types on reception, based on the message itself rather than a fixed configured type.
See <<serdes>> for more information.


==== Container Stopping Error Handlers

Container Error handlers are now provided for both record and batch listeners that treat any exceptions thrown by the listener as fatal; they stop the container.
See <<annotation-error-handling>> for more information.

==== Pausing/Resuming Containers

The listener containers now have `pause()` and `resume()` methods (since _version 2.1.3_).
See <<pause-resume>> for more information.

==== Stateful Retry

Starting with _version 2.1.3_, stateful retry can be configured; see <<stateful-retry>> for more information.

==== Client ID

Starting with _version 2.1.1_, it is now possible to set the `client.id` prefix on `@KafkaListener`.
Previously, to customize the client id, you would need a separate consumer factory (and container factory) per listener.
The prefix is suffixed with `-n` to provide unique client ids when using concurrency.


==== Logging Offset Commits

By default, logging of topic offset commits is performed with the DEBUG logging level.
Starting with _version 2.1.2_, there is a new property in `ContainerProperties` called `commitLogLevel` which allows you to specify the log level for these messages.
See <<kafka-container>> for more information.

==== Default @KafkaHandler

Starting with _version 2.1.3_, one of the `@KafkaHandler` s on a class-level `@KafkaListener` can be designated as the default.
See <<class-level-kafkalistener>> for more information.

==== ReplyingKafkaTemplate

Starting with _version 2.1.3_, a subclass of `KafkaTemplate` is provided to support request/reply semantics.
See <<replying-template>> for more information.

==== ChainedKafkaTransactionManager

_Version 2.1.3_ introduced the `ChainedKafkaTransactionManager` see <<chained-transaction-manager>> for more information.

==== After rollback processing

Starting with _version 2.1.6_, a new `AfterRollbackProcessor` strategy is provided - see <<after-rollback>> for more information.


==== Migration Guide from 2.0

https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-kafka/wiki/Spring-for-Apache-Kafka-2.0-to-2.1-Migration-Guide[2.0 to 2.1 Migration].

Commit message:

GH-800: Fix Zombie Fencing
Resolves https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-kafka/issues/800

Fix assignment of `transactional.id` to be consistent across consumers.

**cherry-pick to all versions >= 1.3.x**

# Conflicts:
#	spring-kafka/src/main/java/org/springframework/kafka/core/DefaultKafkaProducerFactory.java
#	spring-kafka/src/main/java/org/springframework/kafka/listener/KafkaMessageListenerContainer.java
#	spring-kafka/src/test/java/org/springframework/kafka/listener/TransactionalContainerTests.java
#	src/reference/asciidoc/whats-new.adoc

src/reference/asciidoc/whats-new.adoc, after:

=== What's new in 2.1 Since 2.0

==== Kafka Client Version

This version requires the 1.0.0 `kafka-clients` or higher.

NOTE: The 1.1.x client is supported, with _version 2.1.5_, but you will need to override dependencies as described in <<deps-for-11x>>.
The 1.1.x client will be supported natively in _version 2.2_.

==== JSON Improvements

The `StringJsonMessageConverter` and `JsonSerializer` now add type information in `Headers`, allowing the converter and `JsonDeserializer` to create specific types on reception, based on the message itself rather than a fixed configured type.
See <<serdes>> for more information.


==== Container Stopping Error Handlers

Container Error handlers are now provided for both record and batch listeners that treat any exceptions thrown by the listener as fatal; they stop the container.
See <<annotation-error-handling>> for more information.

==== Pausing/Resuming Containers

The listener containers now have `pause()` and `resume()` methods (since _version 2.1.3_).
See <<pause-resume>> for more information.

==== Stateful Retry

Starting with _version 2.1.3_, stateful retry can be configured; see <<stateful-retry>> for more information.

==== Client ID

Starting with _version 2.1.1_, it is now possible to set the `client.id` prefix on `@KafkaListener`.
Previously, to customize the client id, you would need a separate consumer factory (and container factory) per listener.
The prefix is suffixed with `-n` to provide unique client ids when using concurrency.


==== Logging Offset Commits

By default, logging of topic offset commits is performed with the DEBUG logging level.
Starting with _version 2.1.2_, there is a new property in `ContainerProperties` called `commitLogLevel` which allows you to specify the log level for these messages.
See <<kafka-container>> for more information.

==== Default @KafkaHandler

Starting with _version 2.1.3_, one of the `@KafkaHandler` s on a class-level `@KafkaListener` can be designated as the default.
See <<class-level-kafkalistener>> for more information.

==== ReplyingKafkaTemplate

Starting with _version 2.1.3_, a subclass of `KafkaTemplate` is provided to support request/reply semantics.
See <<replying-template>> for more information.

==== ChainedKafkaTransactionManager

_Version 2.1.3_ introduced the `ChainedKafkaTransactionManager` see <<chained-transaction-manager>> for more information.

==== After rollback processing

Starting with _version 2.1.6_, a new `AfterRollbackProcessor` strategy is provided - see <<after-rollback>> for more information.


==== Transactional Id

When a transaction is started by the listener container, the `transactional.id` is now the `transactionIdPrefix` appended with `<group.id>.<topic>.<partition>`.
This is to allow proper fencing of zombies https://www.confluent.io/blog/transactions-apache-kafka/[as described here].

==== Migration Guide from 2.0

https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-kafka/wiki/Spring-for-Apache-Kafka-2.0-to-2.1-Migration-Guide[2.0 to 2.1 Migration].
